GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <https://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

  The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works.

  The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed
to take away your freedom to share and change the works. By contrast,
the GNU General Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to
share and change all versions of a program--to make sure it remains free
software for all its users. We, the Free Software Foundation, use this
GNU General Public License for most of our software; it applies also to
any other work released this way by its authors. You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
them if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you
want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new
free programs, and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you
these rights or asking you to surrender the rights. Therefore, you have
certain responsibilities if you distribute copies of software, or if you
modify it: responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same
freedoms that you received. You must make sure that they, too, receive
or can get the source code. And you must show them these terms so they
know their rights.

  Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps:
(1) Avertion of copyright on the software, and (2) offering you this
License giving you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify
it.

  For the developers' and authors' protection, and to ensure that the
software is continually offered to all its users, the GPL states that
any modified version of the software must be licensed under the GPL.
Therefore, the software and all its derivatives are free software.

  Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents.
States should not allow patents to restrict development and use of
software on general-purpose computers. To prevent this, the GPL ensures
that patents cannot be used to render the program non-free.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

                       TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 0. Definitions.

  "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

  "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this
License. Each licensee is addressed as "you". "Licensees" and
"recipients" may be individuals or organizations.

  To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work
in a fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an
exact copy. The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the
earlier work or a work "based on" the earlier work.

  A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based
on the Program.

  To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without
permission under this License, would make you directly or secondarily
liable for infringement under applicable copyright law, except executing
it on a computer or modifying a private copy. Propagation includes
copying, distribution (with or without modification), making available
to the public, and in some countries other activities as well.

  To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other
parties to make or receive copies. Mere interaction with a user through
a computer network, with no transfer of a copy, is not "conveying".

  An interactive user interface displays "Legal Notices" that include
a convenient and prominently visible feature that (1) states that the
work is covered by this License, and (2) provides you with a copy of
this License. If the interface presents a list of user commands or
options, such as a menu, a prominent item in the list should belong to
this feature.

1. Source Code.

  The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it. "Object code" means any non-source form of a
work.

  A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official
standard defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of
interfaces specified for a particular programming language, one that is
widely used among developers working in that language.

  The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other
than the work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of
packaging a Major Component, but which is not itself a Major Component,
and (b) serves only to enable use of the work with that Major Component,
or to implement a Standard Interface for which an implementation is
available to the public in source code form. A "Major Component", in
this context, means a major essential component (kernel, window system,
and so on) of the specific operating system (if any) on which the
executable work runs, or a compiler used to produce the work, or an
object code interpreter used to run it.

  The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all
the source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable
work) run the object code and to modify the work, including scripts to
control those activities. However, it does not include the work's System
Libraries, or general-purpose tools or generally available free programs
which are used unmodified in performing those activities but which are
not part of the work. For example, Corresponding Source includes
interface definition files associated with source files, and the source
code for shared libraries and dynamically linked subprograms that the
Program is specifically designed to require, such as by intimate data
communication or control flow between those subprograms.

  The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users can
regenerate automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source.

  The Corresponding Source for a work in object code form is "complete"
if it includes all the source code and all the object code needed to
generate its object code, plus any intermediate files and scripts needed
to install and run the object code.

  The Legal Notices of an enclosed work need not include any notice that
refers to a patent license, if the Program is released under this
License without such a notice.

2. Basic Permissions.

  All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of
copyright on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated
conditions are met. This License explicitly affirms your unlimited
permission to run the unmodified Program. The output from running a
covered work is covered by this License only if the output, given its
content, constitutes a covered work. This License acknowledges your
right of fair use or other equivalent, as provided in copyright law.

  You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey,
without condition, provided that your license otherwise remains in
force.

  You may convey covered works to others for the sole purpose of having
them make modifications exclusively for you, or provide you with
facilities for running a covered work, provided that you comply with the
terms of this License in conveying all material for which you do not
control copyright. Those thus making or running the covered work for you
must do so exclusively on your behalf, under your direction and control,
on terms that prohibit them from making any copies of your copyrighted
material outside their relationship with you.

3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

  No covered work shall be deemed an effective technological measure
under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under Article 11 of the
WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or similar laws
prohibiting or restricting circumvention of such measures.

  When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention
is effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to the
covered work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or
modification of the work to the extent that it is effected by exercising
rights under this License.

4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

  You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you
receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice;
keep intact all notices stating that this License and any
non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7 apply to the code;
keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and give all
recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

  You may charge any price or no price for each copy of a work that you
convey, and you may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

  You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to
the Program to produce it, in the form of source code under the terms of
section 4, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

  a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified
  it, and giving a relevant date.

  b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released
  under this License and any conditions added under section 7. This
  requirement modifies the requirement in section 4 to "keep intact all
  notices".

  c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License
  to anyone who comes into possession of a copy. This License will
  therefore apply, along with any applicable section 7 additional terms,
  to the whole of the work, and all its parts, regardless of how they
  are packaged. This License gives no permission to license the work in
  any other way, but it does not invalidate such permission if you have
  received it.

  d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
  Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has non-interactive
  interfaces, you need not make them "interactive".

  A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent
works, which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work, and
which are not combined with it such as to form a larger program, in or
on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate".
An aggregate does not require the other works to be covered by this
License.

6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.

  You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of
sections 4 and 5, provided that you also convey the
Corresponding Source in a medium normally used for software interchange.

  Alternatively, you may convey the Corresponding Source by offering,
for a given charge or free of charge, to deliver a copy of the
Corresponding Source to every recipient of the object code who requests
it. This offer must be valid for at least three years from the date of
your last distribution of the object code, or until cessation of
offering of the product or service if that product or service is a
customer order. If you convey object code, you may charge no more than
the cost of physically performing this distribution of source, or a
corresponding offer.

  Alternatively, you may convey the Corresponding Source by providing
access to copy the Corresponding Source from a network server at no
charge.

  Corresponding Source for a work in object code form is "complete" if
it includes all the source code and all the object code needed to
generate its object code, plus any intermediate files and scripts needed
to install and run the object code. The Corresponding Source need not
include anything that users can regenerate automatically from other
parts of the Corresponding Source.

  When you convey an object code work, you may choose any license
compatible with this License for any part of the work that contains
undeniable copyrightable material not covered by this License.

7. Additional Terms.

  "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this
License by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions.
Additional permissions that are applicable to the entire Program shall
be treated as though they were included in this License, to the extent
that they are valid under applicable law. If additional permissions apply
only to part of the Program, that part may be used separately under
those permissions, but the entire Program remains governed by this
License without regard to the additional permissions, and if you combine
that part with other parts of the Program, then the whole remains
governed by the GNU General Public License.

  When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option
remove any additional permissions from that copy. (Additional
permissions may be written to require their own removal in certain
cases when you modify the work.) You may place additional permissions on
material, added by you to a covered work, for which you have or can
give appropriate copyright permission.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you
add to a covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of
that material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:

  a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the
  terms of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or

  b) Requiring preservation of specified legal notices or author
  attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal Notices
  displayed by works containing it; or

  c) Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
  requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in
  reasonable ways as differing from the original version; or

  d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names or trademarks; or

  e) Refusing to grant rights under patent law for use of some portion
  of the work in specific commercial products.

  Other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further
restrictions". If the Program as you received it, or any part of it,
contains a notice stating that it is governed by this License along with
a further restriction, you may remove that restriction. If a license
document contains a further restriction but permits relicensing or
conveyance under this License, you may add to a covered work material
governed by the terms of that license document, provided that the
further restriction does not survive such relicensing or conveyance.

  If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you
must place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the additional
terms that apply to those files, or a notice indicating where to find
such terms.

  Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the
form of a separately written license, or stated as exceptions;
the above requirements apply to either form.

8. Termination.

  You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly
provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to propagate or
modify it is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under
this License (including any patent licenses granted under the third
paragraph of section 11).

  However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your
license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a)
provisionally, unless the copyright holder has explicitly and finally
terminated your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright holder
fails to notify you of the violation by any reasonable means prior to
60 days after the cessation.

  Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is
reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the
violation by some reasonable means, this is the first time you have
received notice of violation of this License (for any work) from that
copyright holder, and you cure the violation prior to 30 days after your
receipt of the notice.

  Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the
patent licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you
under this License. If your rights have been terminated and not
permanently reinstated, receipt of a copy of some or all of the covered
work remains valid.

9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

  You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or
run a copy of the Program. Ancillary propagation of a covered work
occurring solely as a consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission to
receive a copy likewise does not require acceptance. However, nothing
grants you permission to modify or propagate any covered work. These
actions infringe copyright if you do not accept this License. Therefore,
by modifying or propagating a covered work, you indicate your acceptance
of this License to do so.

10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

  Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically
receives a license from the original licensors, to run, modify and
propagate that work, subject to this License. You are not responsible for
enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.

11. Patents.

  A "contributor" is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this
License of the Program or a work on which the Program is based. The work
thus licensed is called the contributor's "contributor version".

  A contributor's essential patent claims are all patent claims owned or
controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or hereafter
acquired, that would be infringed by some manner of making, using, or
selling the contributor version, but do not include claims that would be
infringed only as a consequence of further modification of the
contributor version. For purposes of this definition, "control" includes
the right to grant patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the
requirements of this License.

  Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free
patent license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to make,
use, sell, offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and propagate
the contents of its contributor version.

  In the following three paragraphs, a "patent license" is any express
agreement or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent
(such as an express permission to practice a patent or covenant not to
sue for patent infringement). To "grant" such a patent license to a
party means to make such an agreement or commitment not to enforce a
patent against the party.

  If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license in
which the Corresponding Source of the work is not available to anyone
who can be given a copy, and you do not take reasonable steps to cause
the Corresponding Source to be made available, then you may not convey
the covered work.

  A patent license is "non-discriminatory" if it does not include within
its scope of coverage any party or class of parties who are excluded from
using the work under the GPL.

  Nothing in this License shall be interpreted as excluding or limiting
any implied license or other rights that you may have under patent law.

12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.

  If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot convey a
covered work so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not convey it at all. For example, if you agree to terms that
obligate you to collect a royalty for further conveying from those to
whom you convey the Program, the only way you could satisfy both those
terms and this License would be to refrain entirely from conveying the
Program.

13. Use with the GNU Affero General Public License.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have
permission to link or combine any covered work with a work licensed under
version 3 of the GNU Affero General Public License into a single
combined work, and to convey the resulting work. The terms of this
License will continue to apply to the part which is the covered work,
but the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License will apply to the
part which is the work licensed under the GNU Affero General Public
License.

14. Revised Versions of this License.

  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the GNU General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

  Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU General Public
License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of
following the terms and conditions either of that numbered version or
of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

15. Disclaimer of Warranty.

  THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY
OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM
IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

16. Limitation of Liability.

  IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING
ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF
THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY
OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

  If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided
above cannot be given local legal effect according to their terms,
reviewing courts shall apply local law that most closely approximates
an absolute waiver of all civil liability in connection with the Program,
unless a warranty or assumption of liability accompanies a copy of the
Program in return for a fee.

                       END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

              How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
state the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full license text is.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Also add information on how to contact you.

For example:

  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
